Jonathan Figg: Alright, we are doing the history for
Jonathan Figg: Davis.
Galaxy S10+: I can hear you.
Jonathan Figg: Wonderful. Good afternoon. I'm Dr. Phil, how are you doing
Galaxy S10+: Good, how are you
Jonathan Figg: I'm all right. So we're doing your intake for bright heart today.
Jonathan Figg: Yes, or some kind of history with opiates.
Jonathan Figg: This is all I know so far.
Galaxy S10+: So tell me, also also so that I can get medication treatment. He
Jonathan Figg: Started again.
Galaxy S10+: Also it so that I can get medication for by ADHD.
Jonathan Figg: So we don't do ADHD treatment through right
Galaxy S10+: Now you guys don't prescribe
Jonathan Figg: Know,
Jonathan Figg: Cold really know we're an addiction treatment and recovery program.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. Yeah, so I mean I'm not saying that shouldn't be treated, but I cannot prescribe that
Galaxy S10+: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And I can't help you if you have a history with dependence addiction.
Galaxy S10+: I do it it's it's strength from that, like, okay.
Jonathan Figg: Well, why don't we talk about that and tell me, how can I help you today what's going on.
Galaxy S10+: Um, I would like to stop using
Galaxy S10+: You know, I, I've been struggling with it.
Galaxy S10+: Better
Jonathan Figg: Okay, well, tell me. So, what, what's the history that we're working with. So you said you'd like to stop using. So what are you using
Galaxy S10+: I was using
Jonathan Figg: Okay. And how long has that been going on.
Galaxy S10+: Well, two years now.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so when did it started.
Galaxy S10+: About three years ago.
Jonathan Figg: Three and a half years ago what what happened around that time ago you started
Galaxy S10+: Um, well, my mom got cancer.
Galaxy S10+: And life was pretty hard.
Galaxy S10+: I was struggling. Again, just my life in order, basically.
Galaxy S10+: Just use drugs.
It was like
Galaxy S10+: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So you started three and a half years ago, what has happened between then and now, how have things progressed.
Galaxy S10+: Well, I pretty much hit rock bottom end up using a lost everything.
Galaxy S10+: Trouble.
Galaxy S10+: I went
Galaxy S10+: To jail.
Galaxy S10+: And trying to come back from it. No, I don't want to be used and try to stop using it, like, then I mean I
Galaxy S10+: I'll admit, I had problems with it, but I've got a job and I'm trying to keep keep my job and continue. So keep doing good.
Jonathan Figg: Tell me about the times that you've tried to stop using
Um,
Galaxy S10+: It's really hard. I get sick. I
Galaxy S10+: I just struggle with keeping my life going without it's
Jonathan Figg: Okay. Right on. You mentioned you get sick. You go through withdrawal. Tell me about what your withdrawal is like
Galaxy S10+: I feel like you throw up. I can't, I can't move them all the time.
Galaxy S10+: But I, but I can't go to the bathroom.
Galaxy S10+: It's sick. It's
Galaxy S10+: Called
Jonathan Figg: No, I understand it. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And how long does it take from
Jonathan Figg: Last time you
Jonathan Figg: Draw symptoms to start
Galaxy S10+: Overnight.
Jonathan Figg: Overnight.
Galaxy S10+: Okay, so
Jonathan Figg: In 12 hours.
Galaxy S10+: It starts
Jonathan Figg: Okay. All right. Um, have you ever overdosed or had, I had to be hospitalized for us.
Galaxy S10+: I haven't had to be hospitalized, but I'm pretty sure I can post over those like
Galaxy S10+: I can't say that for sure I wasn't like co parent when when
Galaxy S10+: When I guess you could say, okay,
Jonathan Figg: I'm has the amount that you use increased over time.
Galaxy S10+: Oh yeah, of course.
Jonathan Figg: Are you spending a lot of money and time getting using
Galaxy S10+: Way too much sometimes old or
Jonathan Figg: Sometimes all of it. Okay. And does the effect that you're getting from it. Is it less and less since you started
Galaxy S10+: Yeah, okay.
Jonathan Figg: Have you ever had one
Jonathan Figg: Inch which is where you go for a little while, without using it, then you
Galaxy S10+: Yeah, I hope.
Jonathan Figg: I'm when's the last time that you years from now.
Galaxy S10+: I'm honestly
Jonathan Figg: There's and just to understand this conversation. I'm here to help you. There is no you're not going to tell me anything that's going to shock. This is my job.
Awesome.
Galaxy S10+: sometime last night.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, okay. When do you expect, you're going to start having withdrawal symptoms or are you already
Galaxy S10+: Kind of already have
Galaxy S10+: And then most likely I would be over like
Galaxy S10+: five in the morning, say,
Jonathan Figg: Anyway, sorry, I missed that.
Galaxy S10+: Sometime in the early morning I will be starting to really
Galaxy S10+: Find it
Jonathan Figg: Boring. Okay. All right. Um,
Jonathan Figg: Are you allergic to anything medications.
Jonathan Figg: No. Okay.
Galaxy S10+: Um I sofa.
Galaxy S10+: Hello, boys. I don't do well with others that started
Jonathan Figg: And do you have any other medical conditions.
Jonathan Figg: ADHD ADHD talk about this one. And do you take medication currently for anything else, including
Galaxy S10+: No allergies or tech
Jonathan Figg: Use Desertec, okay.
Jonathan Figg: And what did you use to take
Galaxy S10+: For what
What did you use to take
Jonathan Figg: Have you ever been treated
Galaxy S10+: I have been treated I've gone through three different occasions. One was a girlfriend one US Strattera
Galaxy S10+: And that
Galaxy S10+: Adderall. And the only thing that was effective on it was
Jonathan Figg: It was after. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Have you had
Jonathan Figg: Problems with misusing Adderall.
Galaxy S10+: No. Okay.
Galaxy S10+: No, I've had problems when I don't have like medication. This you think anything else seems to help
Galaxy S10+: I see what
Galaxy S10+: We're taking me away from the struggle that
Galaxy S10+: Deal with it.
Jonathan Figg: I see. Gotcha.
Jonathan Figg: And
Jonathan Figg: Let's see. Have you had any surgeries.
Galaxy S10+: Yeah, I've had one shot by ankle.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. Was that from like a trauma from what you heard it.
Galaxy S10+: It was a chainsaw accident.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. I'd call that trauma. Yeah, okay.
Jonathan Figg: All right.
Jonathan Figg: Is there any family history. And when we think of family history. We think mom other sisters have problems with alcohol or drugs.
Galaxy S10+: Okay. All right.
Jonathan Figg: Um, have you ever heard or use
Your finger suboptimal
Galaxy S10+: I'm I've heard of it. I've been told by people, and especially someone close to that, that it's really helped and
Jonathan Figg: How did you get referred to us a bright harder. How did you find right
Galaxy S10+: By my girlfriend.
Galaxy S10+: Okay, other than
Jonathan Figg: your significant other. Okay, awesome. And what's your understanding of Suboxone
Galaxy S10+: My understanding is that it locks nerve centers in your brain for the feeling that basically the effects of coming down off the heroin so that you could start using the hell.
Jonathan Figg: All right, great. That's pretty accurate.
Galaxy S10+: Okay, that that's that's my main problem is I started doing it to get away from like basically myself and my problems. And now I can't stop there because I said
Jonathan Figg: I missed that.
Galaxy S10+: I get. I get so sick. Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: So heroin is an opiate time drug
Galaxy S10+: Yes.
Jonathan Figg: And that's a specific kind of chemical that's a specific kind
Jonathan Figg: And it has actions, it activates pleasure. That's the high
Jonathan Figg: Off pain, it turns off. How awake, you are writing to make you drowsy knock you out.
Jonathan Figg: And, you know, it'll turn off your breathing, and that's the
Galaxy S10+: Yes.
Jonathan Figg: When you stop taking
Jonathan Figg: It for a long time. Are you going to throw up. Are you okay
Galaxy S10+: Yeah, sorry.
Jonathan Figg: I just if you have to go for a second best. Okay. I don't want you to
Jonathan Figg: We're going to do something, is that we have to talk for a minute here.
Jonathan Figg: So when you stop taking it suddenly you get
Jonathan Figg: All of those effects it make you feel horrible.
Jonathan Figg: Everything hurts worse than it did before. Anyway, right, you feel anxious or
Jonathan Figg: So, and in
Jonathan Figg: Your brain will continue looking even after the Israel is gone. Right. So you'd have a dependence on it and there's nothing that will change that.
Galaxy S10+: So,
Jonathan Figg: In order to treat you. For that, we have to place heroin with something that's safer that we told that we can have a control for okay
Galaxy S10+: And if
Jonathan Figg: You get you off that then we can slowly over time to eat.
Jonathan Figg: So,
Galaxy S10+: You can do that.
Jonathan Figg: Better. We're going to go into severe withdrawal and just relax.
Jonathan Figg: So buprenorphine is also right we have to do a replace
Jonathan Figg: It does not have the same
Jonathan Figg: Other brands who does have her on pleasure.
Jonathan Figg: Guys, it doesn't get behind on it is still an effective pain reliever. So it will decrease the 5% depending on your experience when you with
Jonathan Figg: Well, it has what we call a ceiling effect beyond a certain dose taking more doesn't do anything else doesn't restrict the appropriate dose.
Jonathan Figg: doesn't turn off your breathing. So we're going to overdub song so it makes it a safer.
Galaxy S10+: Yeah yeah
Jonathan Figg: It also has a blocking effect. And then your significant other was telling you about. So it will stop the withdrawal because it's a little bit. And once you're already on Suboxone it will block the effect of other things like heroin have any effect on you. So it helps reduce the reward.
From user
Galaxy S10+: Just
Craving
Galaxy S10+: Effective anymore.
Jonathan Figg: So it kind of takes care of both issues. It's going to take care of the with
Jonathan Figg: The cravings use other stuff.
Jonathan Figg: Our goal would be to find the lowest effective dose that stops your withdrawals.
Jonathan Figg: No side effects of the medication.
Jonathan Figg: Medication like any medication.
Galaxy S10+: We see are the same.
Galaxy S10+: You're okay. Yeah, I was gonna say no, I have a pretty high ceiling on this, but
Galaxy S10+: I do
Jonathan Figg: How much do you do
I'm
Galaxy S10+: Spending like
Galaxy S10+: Nearly $300 a day.
Galaxy S10+: 3333
Jonathan Figg: Bags of the timer three bags in the day.
Galaxy S10+: You guys on the day
Jonathan Figg: Okay. All right.
Jonathan Figg: That's okay, that doesn't change that Suboxone can still be very effective for you.
Galaxy S10+: Okay. All right. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: I did my kitchen said you're not gonna shock me. Don't worry.
Jonathan Figg: So,
Jonathan Figg: The, the main side effects that we see, if you take too much. It can make you drowsy. It can make you constipated. He
Jonathan Figg: Wants you to have side effects from it. But what I would suggest we do
Jonathan Figg: The way bright heart works is where recovery program.
Jonathan Figg: Were centered around weekly support groups that meet the same time each week like an NA or a meeting.
Galaxy S10+: Their lead
Jonathan Figg: Got an hour long they're led by a therapist or counselor who has a history with addiction treatment.
Galaxy S10+: And they start pitching.
Jonathan Figg: To make sure you're on those. If you're tapering that's control they have enough so all those
Galaxy S10+: People, but
Jonathan Figg: One of the questions I have is, so you mentioned you have a job. So we take into your schedule.
Galaxy S10+: With your schedule.
Jonathan Figg: I personally have spots in my
Galaxy S10+: Tuesday and Thursday.
Jonathan Figg: With either of those work for you.
Galaxy S10+: To stay on.
Jonathan Figg: Tuesday or Thursday at 3pm.
Galaxy S10+: That's a little bit
Jonathan Figg: And just so you understand
Galaxy S10+: Two things will work.
Jonathan Figg: Tuesday at 3pm would work.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah okay so we meet every Tuesday at 3pm with that. Would you be able to consistently come to that.
Galaxy S10+: That was so far that we're working with my staff.
Jonathan Figg: Unless you change and we you know we understand things like that life changes, sometimes, and that's okay.
Let me just
Jonathan Figg: Tuesday 3pm. Okay, just making a note for myself. Alright, so what we would do.
Jonathan Figg: Right now, is I'll have the care coordinators setup so that you're part of our Tuesday at
Galaxy S10+: 3pm group.
Jonathan Figg: Our groups are done through zoom, just like this.
Galaxy S10+: It's a
Jonathan Figg: Call the virtual clinic, which is the number you call a for me.
Jonathan Figg: To check in. It's like checking in at a medical office.
Galaxy S10+: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: You know if they have a question for your paperwork or whatever they take care of that. And then they give you the degree. It's like a
Galaxy S10+: Number two.
Jonathan Figg: Then the second thing that will do is I'll write you a prescription for Suboxone let's make sure that your
Galaxy S10+: RCS. Correct.
Jonathan Figg: I see a CBS on Cyprus avenues that right for you.
Yes.
Galaxy S10+: So,
Jonathan Figg: The way Suboxone is taken. It's a what we call a sublingual medication. So in either comes as a tablet.
Jonathan Figg: Or a little script.
Jonathan Figg: Looks like a breath strip
Galaxy S10+: You would
Jonathan Figg: Hear nice the side of your tongue.
Jonathan Figg: All tiredly, usually takes about five to 10 minutes
Jonathan Figg: Okay, there's veins underneath your tongue and the medication goes through the skin Jordan question.
Jonathan Figg: Box Fox on has to medications in a buprenorphine which is what's going to stop your withdrawal.
Galaxy S10+: Medications
Jonathan Figg: On the lock. So that's the reverse agent that we give to
Jonathan Figg: That would put you into withdrawal. If you absorbed it but you don't absorb it under your tongue.
Jonathan Figg: If you take it the wrong way. If you some people do silly things like melted or
Jonathan Figg: Whatever they want to know locks.
Galaxy S10+: Of using medication.
Jonathan Figg: Make it under your tongue that does not happen. I just want you to understand the right way to
Galaxy S10+: Take care.
Jonathan Figg: If you swallow the medication. Instead, you don't absorb anything and it will be like taking nothing
Galaxy S10+: Well, gotcha.
Jonathan Figg: It's important that you let it dissolve entirely and then don't
Galaxy S10+: eat or drink or smoke for
Galaxy S10+: Okay, I don't drink.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, I just want to make sure you understand so
Jonathan Figg: It has the right effect for you.
Jonathan Figg: I'm an issue a prescription for the Suboxone
Jonathan Figg: I would suggest waiting, about an hour.
Jonathan Figg: Call the pharmacy and make sure they're able to fill
Galaxy S10+: In
Jonathan Figg: Like run out or something like that or need an insurance world just to make sure you can get your medication. If you have any problem.
Jonathan Figg: You should call
Jonathan Figg: Our virtual clinic again.
Galaxy S10+: Whatever we can fit.
Galaxy S10+: Okay. All right, good.
Jonathan Figg: The second thing that I'm going to do. So you use when did you say your last year was I'm sorry last
Galaxy S10+: Early this morning.
Jonathan Figg: Early this morning. Okay.
Galaxy S10+: Be there to be
Jonathan Figg: And we're going to do something. Meantime,
That you're not
Jonathan Figg: want there to be at least 24 hours.
Jonathan Figg: The last time you use the first time you take Suboxone
Galaxy S10+: Suboxone told of the receptor tighter there's any lab.
Galaxy S10+: Whoa.
Now,
Jonathan Figg: In temporarily put you into an even worse withdraw. We call it
Jonathan Figg: Happen. We want you to be uncomfortable, a little bit. And then when you take the medication feel better.
Jonathan Figg: In the meantime, I'm also going to give you a script for zone, which is an anti nausea medication.
Galaxy S10+: Okay, with the knowledge and the
Jonathan Figg: Plan Venus and the diarrhea.
Jonathan Figg: Let's do you feel restless, you get anxious
Galaxy S10+: Yeah, okay.
Jonathan Figg: I'm also going to give you a script for clonidine
Which
Jonathan Figg: Which will help with that. It's a blood pressure medication, but we use it to stop.
Jonathan Figg: It and those kinds of have to have those for today.
Jonathan Figg: So you don't get some horrible.
Galaxy S10+: first of October feel better. Does that make sense. That makes sense. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: We're going to start you there is no way to predict just because you were taking x amount of on the
Audience
Jonathan Figg: So we start you at a lower goals.
Jonathan Figg: Might you slowly work your way up.
Galaxy S10+: What you're doing
Jonathan Figg: You're going to take the first one under your tongue, you're going to let it dissolve entirely
Jonathan Figg: let it dissolve, then you're going to wait about an hour to
Jonathan Figg: Check yourself. Do I feel better.
Jonathan Figg: On or do I still have some withdrawal symptoms.
Jonathan Figg: If you still have so much for all you take another one.
After lunch.
Jonathan Figg: And then again you wait and check yourself. Do I feel better not.
Jonathan Figg: To strips in the first day if you still feel bad. You need to call our virtual clinic, but most people
Jonathan Figg: will not allow someone to strips.
Jonathan Figg: Based on the history that you've given me. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: But it may mean maybe lower dose. I don't want to make you drowsy all so I don't
Jonathan Figg: Understand started a lower dose can work your way up if you need to. Okay.
Right.
Jonathan Figg: All right, and then you're going to be Tuesday at 3pm and the
Jonathan Figg: Medical history. Okay, I think that's everything that I need to cover
Galaxy S10+: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Important to me that you understand what we're doing and that your questions are answered. So what you know what questions or concerns.
Galaxy S10+: I don't have any sense. I've heard good things. This isn't the first time I've heard of this is why I'm like seeking to help
Galaxy S10+: The only things that I did have concern is, I want to want to get treatment for ADHD. I don't, I don't have a doctor's note here that can prescribe it but my goal document history.
Jonathan Figg: It's not unfortunately because of the structure of telemedicine. It's not something that I can do.
Galaxy S10+: Based on
The current laws.
Jonathan Figg: But
Jonathan Figg: What's your barrier to finding another primary care doctor
Galaxy S10+: I'm a referral, and we don't have anybody in my role area.
Jonathan Figg: Oh, you're rural. Okay.
Galaxy S10+: Yeah, that's why. That's why I'm here with a few Bish facility that does this treatment in my area.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, I don't have an immediate solution for you. But I can check into it and see what
Jonathan Figg: Resources, I can come up with for you for your ADHD.
Treatment
Jonathan Figg: But I don't have the answer right now. But let me check. Okay.
Galaxy S10+: Thank you.
Jonathan Figg: The other thing to do would be call your insurance company.
Jonathan Figg: Already and ask them, hey, like I need someone to help me with this problem.
Jonathan Figg: Who's in my area or who can you give me that would be a network. Okay. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Your insurance company should be able to give you an answer on that as well. All right.
Jonathan Figg: What other questions or concerns you have
About
Jonathan Figg: One of the things you mentioned there. You've heard of this before. Have you ever been in a recovery program before
Jonathan Figg: Okay, okay, just wanted to check. Okay. All right. All right. That's everything I have an issue, your prescriptions, like you said, wait.
Jonathan Figg: Wait, about an hour just to make sure the pharmacy gets a script.
Galaxy S10+: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And I usually recommend, like I said, call the pharmacy first
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, okay. Alright, cool. It was really nice to meet you. Elijah.
Galaxy S10+: Thank you. All right.
Jonathan Figg: Will look for you tomorrow at 3pm just call the virtual clinic about 20 minutes or so before three
Galaxy S10+: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: All right, awesome. So nice to meet you. You have a nice day. I hope you feel better soon.
Jonathan Figg: Feeling better tomorrow, okay, definitely.
Galaxy S10+: All right, take care.
Bye bye.
Jonathan Figg: And during the
Jonathan Figg: Interview I pulled this year's report, which actually I don't find any records. We're going to have to check
Jonathan Figg: On why he says he was treated with Adderall. In the past, but just curious report, even on partial matches.
Does not
See, everybody else.
Jonathan Figg: And so I'm not putting anything
On his shirt report.
Jonathan Figg: Was a refill. OK. So the plan is going to be. He's going to join our Tuesday 3pm.
Jonathan Figg: Group.
Jonathan Figg: For opioid use disorder and rewriting the script for Suboxone ain't no grand start one strip a go to
Jonathan Figg: And excuse me excusing is
Jonathan Figg: questionnaires that I reviewed during the thing is expert. He has a low audit score. So I'm not concerned about drinking. He doesn't have any history of using other
Jonathan Figg: Drugs is quite straightforward. He had a normal mental status. He's physically uncomfortable. He's in mild withdrawal. And so he looked like he was gonna vomit. A couple times there.
Although he didn't. Thankfully,
And that's it.